Staking protocol economics full paper draft (#8)
nucypher/whitepaper: economics/staking_protocol/main.tex

\item There is little certainty regarding the length of time that will elapse between the network's launch and the development of meaningful demand from users (developers, end-users \& others).
\item Early-stage demand tends to be particularly fragile. Early adopters do not have the testimonials of existing users as evidence of a reliable or valuable service. Moreover, a greater proportion of the user base will be trialling the network for the first time. Compared with long-term users of the network in later epochs, for whom the price of abandoning the service is high (disruption to end-users, migration and new integration costs, etc.), trial-stage users will be less tolerant of inadequacies. For example, a single instance in which too few service-providers are available to immediately fulfill a sharing policy's requirements, may be enough to lose that user.
\item Subsidy models involving a precipitous drop in issuance rest on the assumption that demand will grow in a corresponding fashion, filling the gap in service-provider revenue. If demand grows slower than the model expects, some node operations may be rendered unsustainable, potentially destabilizing the network.

> \item There will be some adopters of the NuCypher network whose use case inflexibly requires long-lasting sharing policies. For example, a stake that unlocks in 365 days provides a form of economic security, ensuring the policy will be served for the next 12 months by the associated service-provider. To fulfil the needs of early (and later) adopters with long-lasting policies, the protocol must motivate the successive re-commitment to long stake lock-up durations by an sufficiently large population of service-providers. A diminished subsidy, in lieu of a mature fee market, may not be enough to incentivize this repeated and essential re-commitment. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
\item There may be some adopters of the NuCypher network whose use case inflexibly requires long-lasting sharing policies. For example, a stake that unlocks in 365 days provides a form of economic security, ensuring the policy will be served for the next 12 months by the associated service-provider. To fulfil the needs of early (and later) adopters with long-lasting policies, the protocol must motivate the successive re-commitment to long stake lock-up durations by an sufficiently large population of service-providers. A diminished subsidy, in lieu of a mature fee market, may not be enough to incentivize this repeated and essential re-commitment. 
```

\end{enumerate}

\\\\

> Hence, the two-phase model attempts to mitigate the risk of \textbf{fledgling demand for network services coinciding with a disincentivized, dwindling or transient} service-provider population. Note that these premises do not contain strong claims about when (or if) meaningful adoption of the network  will occur. Instead, it is the acknowledgement of uncertainty with respect to a demand timeline that forms the core of the problem, and underpins the utility and advantage of a stable issuance phase as part of a two-phase minting schedule. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Hence, the two-phase model attempts to mitigate the risk of \textbf{fledgling demand for network services coinciding with a disincentivized, dwindling or transient} service-provider population. Note that these premises do not contain strong claims about when (or if) meaningful adoption of the network will occur. Instead, it is the acknowledgement of uncertainty with respect to a demand timeline that forms the core of the problem, and underpins the utility and advantage of a stable issuance phase as part of a two-phase minting schedule. 
```

\\\\

> It is worth noting that market prices for comparable services (e.g. key/secret management) tend to be low, on both a per-operation and subscription (per-month) basis \cite{Pricing:AWS}\cite{Pricing:GC}\cite{Pricing:MS}.  Profitability is achievable through a high volume of operations and/or users, which is almost certainly a long-term endeavor. This business context aggravates the risks of fast-falling subsidies described in this section. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
It is worth noting that market prices for comparable services (e.g. key/secret management) tend to be low, on both a per-operation and subscription (per-month) basis \cite{Pricing:AWS}\cite{Pricing:GC}\cite{Pricing:MS}. Profitability is achievable through a high volume of operations and/or users, which is almost certainly a long-term endeavor. This business context aggravates the risks of fast-falling subsidies described in this section. 
```

\begin{equation}
    \label{eq:rate-max}
    ds_{i,p} = \kappa_i \cdot \frac{\theta_i}{\Theta} \cdot \frac{\ln{2}}{T_{1/2} \cdot 365 } \cdot \left[S(\infty) - S(p-1) \right]\\
\end{equation}

\subsection{Variable issuance and the global economy}

The circulating supply at a given period $p$ is the sum of the tokens received thus far by all sub-stakes (this does not include the genesis supply):
\begin{equation}
    dS_p= \sum_i ds_{i,p}
\end{equation}

Sub-stakes locked for a short times earn less than the maximum subsidy, thereby slowing the expansion of the entire circulating supply – tokens are only minted if they are to be distributed to service-providers. The implication of any instance of $\kappa$ < 1 is that it will take longer than the provisional 5 years to mint all the tokens reserved for Phase 1. The year in which the protocol switches from the first to second phase ($T_{1\rightarrow2}$) is therefore: 

\begin{equation}
\label{phaseswitch}
    T_{1\rightarrow2}= \frac{S_{Ph1}}{S_0 \cdot \kappa^* \cdot I_{max}}
\end{equation}
\\

> Where $\kappa^*$ is the average lock duration of all sub-stakes, weighted by relative size, and $S_{Ph1}$ is the total number of tokens reserved for Phase 1, excluding the genesis supply (roughly 1.83 billion). For example, if $\kappa^*$ were to equal 11 months, $T_{1\rightarrow2}$ would be  5 years and 79 days. The longest Phase 1 can last (i.e. if all sub-stakes unlock in 1 month, so $\kappa^* \approx 0.54$), barring changes to the protocol, is approximately 8 years and 209 days.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Where $\kappa^*$ is the average lock duration of all sub-stakes, weighted by relative size, and $S_{Ph1}$ is the total number of tokens reserved for Phase 1, excluding the genesis supply (roughly 1.83 billion). For example, if $\kappa^*$ were to equal 11 months, $T_{1\rightarrow2}$ would be 5 years and 79 days. The longest Phase 1 can last (i.e. if all sub-stakes unlock in 1 month, so $\kappa^* \approx 0.54$), barring changes to the protocol, is approximately 8 years and 209 days.
```

\subsection{Other considerations for service-providers}

\subsubsection{Re-staking}

> A service-provider is free to withdraw the subsidies their sub-stakes receive. If they pocket all incoming tokens, then their sub-stakes will remain the same size, but are likely to decrease as a fraction of the total tokens staked ($\Theta$), which means their period-to-period subsidy, and exposure to user requests, will also decrease. A service-provider may re-stake their subsidies, provided they have the capacity to support the potential increase in workload (user requests). If the sub-stakes in question are set to unlock in 1 year or longer, and the average lock duration is shorter than this, then re-staking all subsidies would see those sub-stakes grow and account for a increasing fraction of the total tokens staked. As a result, the subsidies received would also rise over time. The dramatic difference in long-term  cumulative earnings between various staking strategies over both phases is shown in figures 4 and 5. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A service-provider is free to withdraw the subsidies their sub-stakes receive. If they pocket all incoming tokens, then their sub-stakes will remain the same size, but are likely to decrease as a fraction of the total tokens staked ($\Theta$), which means their period-to-period subsidy, and exposure to user requests, will also decrease. A service-provider may re-stake their subsidies, provided they have the capacity to support the potential increase in workload (user requests). If the sub-stakes in question are set to unlock in 1 year or longer, and the average lock duration is shorter than this, then re-staking all subsidies would see those sub-stakes grow and account for a increasing fraction of the total tokens staked. As a result, the subsidies received would also rise over time. The dramatic difference in long-term cumulative earnings between various staking strategies over both phases is shown in figures 4 and 5. 
```

Author: ```suggestion
A service-provider is free to withdraw the subsidies their sub-stakes receive. If they pocket all incoming tokens, then their sub-stakes will remain the same size, but are likely to decrease as a fraction of the total tokens staked ($\Theta$), which means their period-to-period subsidy, and exposure to user requests, will also decrease. A service-provider may re-stake their subsidies, provided they have the capacity to support the potential increase in workload (user requests). If the sub-stakes in question are set to unlock in 1 year or longer, and the average lock duration is shorter than this, then re-staking all subsidies would see those sub-stakes grow and account for a increasing fraction of the total tokens staked. As a result, the subsidies received would also rise over time. The dramatic difference in long-term cumulative earnings between various staking strategies over both phases is shown in FIG. (4) and FIG. (5). 
```

Author: Fixed figure formatting

\documentclass[longbibliography,nofootinbib]{revtex4-1}

\newcommand{\kms}{NuCypher}

\usepackage{listings}
\usepackage{graphicx}
\usepackage{amsmath}
\usepackage{subcaption}
\usepackage[labelformat=parens,labelsep=quad, skip=3pt]{caption}
\usepackage[margin=5pt]{subfig}
\usepackage[usenames]{color}

\renewcommand{\baselinestretch}{1.4}
\setlength{\parskip}{1em}
\definecolor{darkgreen}{rgb}{0.00,0.50,0.25}
\definecolor{darkblue}{rgb}{0.00,0.00,0.67}
\newcommand{\figref}[1]{Fig.~\ref{#1}}
\usepackage[breaklinks,pdftitle={NuCypher: a proxy re-encryption network to empower privacy in decentralized systems}, pdfauthor={Arjun Hassard},colorlinks,urlcolor=blue,citecolor=darkgreen,linkcolor=darkblue]{hyperref}
\graphicspath{{pdf/}}

\usepackage[T1]{fontenc}
\usepackage{lmodern}
\lstset{
    basicstyle=\ttfamily,
    basewidth={0.5em, 0.5em},
    columns=fullflexible,
}

\begin{document}

\title{NuCypher Network: Staking Protocol \& Economics}

\author{Michael Egorov}
\email{michael@nucypher.com}
\author{MacLane Wilkison}
\email{maclane@nucypher.com}
\author{Arjun Hassard}
\email{arjun@nucypher.com}
\affiliation{NuCypher}

\begin{abstract}

> This paper describes the protocol mechanisms which aim to incentivize and sustain reliable supply participation in the NuCypher network, including the regular distribution of a subsidy to actively staking service-providers. The subsidy is generated through the scheduled growth of the native token's circulating supply, following a `two-phase' model designed to maximize service quality, node operation efficiency and network decentralization. The paper also explains the relationship between discretionary stake configurations and subsidy size; in particular, extra incentives to commit to longer staking durations. The rules for stake management, including locking, unwinding, and withdrawing, are covered in detail, and the impact of these service-provider decisions on the global supply is deduced. Finally, an analysis of historical service-provider behavior in existing staking networks provides an empirical context for design and parameter choices.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This paper describes the protocol mechanisms which aim to incentivize and sustain reliable supply-side participation in the NuCypher network, including the regular distribution of a subsidy to actively staking service-providers. The subsidy is generated through the scheduled growth of the native token's circulating supply, following a `two-phase' model designed to maximize service quality, node operation efficiency and network decentralization. The paper also explains the relationship between discretionary stake configurations and subsidy size; in particular, extra incentives to commit to longer staking durations. The rules for stake management, including locking, unwinding, and withdrawing, are covered in detail, and the impact of these service-provider decisions on the global supply is deduced. Finally, an analysis of historical service-provider behavior in existing staking networks provides an empirical context for design and parameter choices.
```

supply participation -> supply-side participation

Author: As you point out below, we use 'supply' for something completely different throughout the paper. However, 'supply-side' primarily refers to a macroeconomic theory that pushes for low taxes. So I think it best we choose another term, even if its boring :). Wdyt?

```suggestion
This paper describes the protocol mechanisms designed to incentivize and sustain reliable service provision in the NuCypher network, including the regular distribution of a subsidy to actively staking service-providers. The subsidy is generated through the scheduled expansion of the native token's circulating supply, following a `two-phase' model designed to maximize service quality, operational efficiency and network decentralization. The paper covers the rules for stake management, including locking, splitting, extending and unwinding stakes, and explains the relationship between discretionary stake configurations and subsidy size; with particular focus on the extra incentive to commit to longer staking durations. The impact of individual configurations on global supply dynamics is deduced. Finally, an analysis of historical service-provider behavior in existing staking networks provides an empirical context for design and parameter choices.
```

Reviewer 2: 👍

Reviewer 2: 👍

> This paper describes the protocol mechanisms which aim to incentivize and sustain reliable supply participation in the NuCypher network, including the regular distribution of a subsidy to actively staking service-providers. The subsidy is generated through the scheduled growth of the native token's circulating supply, following a `two-phase' model designed to maximize service quality, node operation efficiency and network decentralization. The paper also explains the relationship between discretionary stake configurations and subsidy size; in particular, extra incentives to commit to longer staking durations. The rules for stake management, including locking, unwinding, auto-prolonging and withdrawing, are covered in detail, and the impact of these service-provider decisions on the global supply is deduced. Finally, an analysis of historical service-provider behavior in existing staking networks provides an empirical context for design and parameter choices.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This paper describes the protocol mechanisms which aim to incentivize and sustain reliable supply participation in the NuCypher network, including the regular distribution of a subsidy to actively staking service-providers. The subsidy is generated through the scheduled growth of the native token's circulating supply, following a `two-phase' model designed to maximize service quality, node operation efficiency and network decentralization. The paper also explains the relationship between discretionary stake configurations and subsidy size; in particular, extra incentives to commit to longer staking durations. The rules for stake management, including locking, unwinding, and withdrawing, are covered in detail, and the impact of these service-provider decisions on the global supply is deduced. Finally, an analysis of historical service-provider behavior in existing staking networks provides an empirical context for design and parameter choices.
```
imo remove `auto-prolonging` since it's just the corollary to `unwinding` and it doesn't have an explicit subsection in Section C.

\end{abstract}

\date{\today}
\maketitle

\section{Motivation \& Context}

> The Nucypher network is an example of a \textit{decentralized service marketplace}, providing infrastructural services to digital applications/systems (`users') via a distributed supply of independent node operators (`service-providers'), who run the same software but have discretion over certain service parameters. NuCypher's primary offerings, secrets management and dynamic access control, are a breed of scaleable, trust-minimizing, censorship-resistant services – the strength of each value proposition depending, to some extent, on long-term commitment to the network by a large, diversified population of service-providers. Aspects of the NuCypher service necessitate concurrent work by multiple service-providers to be maximally secure and redundant.

Reviewer 2: "scaleable" - your British side is coming out, which I appreciate being from the Caribbean

\\\\

> Hence, like many decentralized service marketplaces, and indeed centralized marketplaces, it is critical to the NuCypher network that supply is abundant and reliable – and that the network establishes this state prior to the emergence of user adoption, lest the adoption be short-lived. As with any network, operating a node incurs various overheads, upfront and ongoing, and denominated in fiat, cryptocurrency and time. Moreover, eligibility for service provision in the NuCypher network is contingent on the acquisition and time-locking of collateral (`staking'), which burdens the service-provider with ongoing risk and opportunity cost.

Reviewer 2: Trying to ensure that we don't conflate "service supply" with monetary/token supply.

supply -> service provision
```suggestion
Hence, like many decentralized service marketplaces, and indeed centralized marketplaces, it is critical to the NuCypher network that service provision is abundant and reliable – and that the network establishes this state prior to the emergence of user adoption, lest the adoption be short-lived. As with any network, operating a node incurs various overheads, upfront and ongoing, and denominated in fiat, cryptocurrency and time. Moreover, eligibility for service provision in the NuCypher network is contingent on the acquisition and time-locking of collateral (`staking'), which burdens the service-provider with ongoing risk and opportunity cost.
```

Author: Yes! See above comment

> Hence, like many decentralized service marketplaces, and indeed centralized marketplaces, it is critical to the NuCypher network that supply is abundant and reliable – and that the network establishes this state prior to the emergence of user adoption, lest the adoption be short-lived. As with any network, operating a node incurs various overheads, upfront and ongoing, and denominated in fiat, cryptocurrency and time. Moreover, eligibility for service provision in the NuCypher network is contingent on the acquisition and time-locking of collateral (`staking'), which burdens the service-provider with risk and opportunity cost from day one.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Hence, like many decentralized service marketplaces, and indeed centralized marketplaces, it is critical to the NuCypher network that supply is abundant and reliable – and that the network establishes this state prior to the emergence of user adoption, lest the adoption be short-lived. As with any network, operating a node incurs various overheads, upfront and ongoing, and denominated in fiat, cryptocurrency and time. Moreover, eligibility for service provision in the NuCypher network is contingent on the acquisition and time-locking of collateral (`staking'), which burdens the service-provider with ongoing risk and opportunity cost.
```

\\\\

> If demand for NuCypher services rise sufficiently, direct payments from users (`fees') will sustain the operations of service-providers. However, before demand reaches this threshold, another stream of revenue is required – to incentivize a sufficient number\footnote[1]{The number of independent service-providers is approximately proportional to the level of security, redundancy and censorship-resistance available to users, but these benefits begin to plateau at roughly >500 service-providers.} of service-providers to join the network, and to subsidize the cost of their operations until a mature fee market materializes. Thus, a vitally important mechanism in the NuCypher protocol is the predictable distribution of subsidies to actively staking service-providers, realized through the growth of the native token's circulating supply. 

Reviewer 2: rise -> rises

```suggestion
If demand for NuCypher services rises sufficiently, direct payments from users (`fees') will sustain the operations of service-providers. However, before demand reaches this threshold, another stream of revenue is required – to incentivize a sufficient number\footnote[1]{The number of independent service-providers is approximately proportional to the level of security, redundancy and censorship-resistance available to users, but these benefits begin to plateau at roughly >500 service-providers.} of service-providers to join the network, and to subsidize the cost of their operations until a mature fee market materializes. Thus, a vitally important mechanism in the NuCypher protocol is the predictable distribution of subsidies to actively staking service-providers, realized through the growth of the native token's circulating supply. 
```

> If demand for Nucypher services rise sufficiently, direct payments from users (`fees') will sustain the operations of service-providers, and potentially generate profits. However, before demand reaches this threshold, another stream of revenue is required – to incentivize a sufficient number\footnote[1]{The number of independent service-providers is approximately proportional to the level of security, redundancy and censorship-resistance available to users, but these benefits begin to plateau at roughly >500 service-providers.} of service-providers to join the network, and to subsidize the cost of their operations until a mature fee market materializes. Thus, a vitally important mechanism in the NuCypher protocol is the predictable distribution of subsidies to actively staking service-providers, realized through the growth of the native token's circulating supply. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If demand for NuCypher services rise sufficiently, direct payments from users (`fees') will sustain the operations of service-providers. However, before demand reaches this threshold, another stream of revenue is required – to incentivize a sufficient number\footnote[1]{The number of independent service-providers is approximately proportional to the level of security, redundancy and censorship-resistance available to users, but these benefits begin to plateau at roughly >500 service-providers.} of service-providers to join the network, and to subsidize the cost of their operations until a mature fee market materializes. Thus, a vitally important mechanism in the NuCypher protocol is the predictable distribution of subsidies to actively staking service-providers, realized through the growth of the native token's circulating supply. 
```

Reviewer: What's the basis for footnote 1?

Author: Good spot – I left this argument/figure as a placeholder. Ideally we could approximate and state the relationship between the number of independent node operators and each of those value propositions. We do know that 1) it is strongly affected by user behavior, especially the choice of `n`, 2) there are diminishing returns after a few hundred 3) there isn't really a capacity ceiling, so the amount of demand isn't that relevant, 4) there are related factors like geographical/infrastructure diversity

\begin{figure}[h!]
    \includegraphics[width=0.8\textwidth]{Two_phase_model.png}
    \caption{Illustrative comparison of the two-phase model with a popular subsidy schedule. Note that the y-axis refers to an absolute figure of tokens, as opposed to an `inflation rate'.}
    \label{fig:tp}
\end{figure}

\subsubsection{Phase 1 – Constant Issuance}

> In a notable divergence from prevailing subsidy models, NuCypher does not administer a decreasing subsidy in the first few years of the network's existence. Instead, the NuCypher protocol enforces a more \textit{temporally equitable} model, in which, all things equal, the subsidy a service-provider receives remains a constant size for at least the first five years of the network's existence. In this phase (`Phase 1'), a maximum of 366 million new tokens will be minted and distributed annually, equivalent to expanding the circulating supply by a maximum of 1,002,509 tokens every period (days). 

Reviewer 2: 366 million -> 366,000,000

Other than in the "Basic Properties" section we expand the number eg. `reaches a total of 2,829,579,800 tokens` in "Phase 2 - Decaying Issuance" blurb. Alternatively, this could remain 366 million and `2,829,579,800 tokens` changed to `2.83 billion`.

```suggestion
In a notable divergence from prevailing subsidy models, NuCypher does not administer a decreasing subsidy in the first few years of the network's existence. Instead, the NuCypher protocol enforces a more \textit{temporally equitable} model, in which, all things equal, the subsidy a service-provider receives remains a constant size for at least the first five years of the network's existence. In this phase (`Phase 1'), a maximum of 366,000,000 new tokens will be minted and distributed annually, equivalent to expanding the circulating supply by a maximum of 1,002,509 tokens every period (days). 
```

Author: Agreed, the rounding is a bit iffy. I've replaced it with the exact figure. The issuance in one period is actually 1002509.479.
 
```suggestion
In a notable divergence from prevailing subsidy models, NuCypher does not administer a decreasing subsidy in the first few years of the network's existence. Instead, the NuCypher protocol enforces a more \textit{temporally equitable} model, in which, all things equal, the subsidy a service-provider receives remains a constant size for at least the first five years of the network's existence. In this phase (`Phase 1'), a maximum of 365,915,960 new tokens will be minted and distributed annually, equivalent to expanding the circulating supply by slightly over 1,002,509 tokens every period (days). 
```

> In a notable divergence from prevailing subsidy models, NuCypher does not administer a decreasing subsidy in the first few years of the network's existence. Instead, the NuCypher protocol enforces a \textit{temporally equitable} model, in which, all things equal, the subsidy a service-provider receives remains a constant size for at least the first five years of the network's existence. In this phase (`Phase 1'), a maximum of 366 million new tokens will be minted and distributed annually, equivalent to expanding the circulating supply by a maximum of 1,002,509 tokens every period (days). 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In a notable divergence from prevailing subsidy models, NuCypher does not administer a decreasing subsidy in the first few years of the network's existence. Instead, the NuCypher protocol enforces a more \textit{temporally equitable} model, in which, all things equal, the subsidy a service-provider receives remains a constant size for at least the first five years of the network's existence. In this phase (`Phase 1'), a maximum of 366 million new tokens will be minted and distributed annually, equivalent to expanding the circulating supply by a maximum of 1,002,509 tokens every period (days). 
```

\subsubsection{Phase 2 – Decaying Issuance}
Phase 2 commences as soon as the circulating supply reaches a total of 2,829,579,800 tokens – the earliest the protocol can enforce the phase switch is 5 years after network launch. In Phase 2, fewer tokens will be minted in each successive period, such that the daily minting figure decays exponentially with a minimum half-life of 2 years. 

\subsubsection{Variable issuance}

> In the NuCypher protocol, global issuance is modified by the average stake lock-up duration, but for the sake of simplicity this paper initially discusses a scenario in which all node operators choose a lock-up of 12 months or longer. In reality, the average stake lock-up duration is likely to be lower, which would imply fewer total tokens minted per period in both phases. Regardless, lock up durations are chosen entirely at the service-provider's discretion, and hence they retain control the size of subsidy received. Variable issuance has an impact on the global economy and the moment in which the protocol switches from Phase 1 to Phase 2, covered in section III (Staking Protocol). 

Reviewer 2: lock up -> lock-up (for consistency)

```suggestion
In the NuCypher protocol, global issuance is modified by the average stake lock-up duration, but for the sake of simplicity this paper initially discusses a scenario in which all node operators choose a lock-up of 12 months or longer. In reality, the average stake lock-up duration is likely to be lower, which would imply fewer total tokens minted per period in both phases. Regardless, lock-up durations are chosen entirely at the service-provider's discretion, and hence they retain control the size of subsidy received. Variable issuance has an impact on the global economy and the moment in which the protocol switches from Phase 1 to Phase 2, covered in section III (Staking Protocol). 
```

> \subsubsection{Note regarding `inflation rates'}

Reviewer: Is this subsection better presented as a footnote?

Author: Yeh I think it would be, a bit repetitive otherwise

\subsection{Rationale for two-phase model}

\subsubsection{Demand uncertainty}\label{demand}

These demand-related premises form the basis for the two-phase model: 
\begin{enumerate}
\item There is little certainty regarding the length of time that will elapse between the network's launch and the development of meaningful demand from users (developers, end-users \& others).
\item This early-stage demand is particularly fragile, because new users are naturally more fickle. Specifically, neither developers nor their end-users have compelling reasons to tolerate an inadequate service (e.g. too few service-providers available to manage a sharing policy), such as the sunk costs of integration, reliance on the service, or other forms of path dependency, all of which are more likely to play a role later in the network's lifetime. Early users are unavoidably required to take a greater risk than later adopters, as they do not have the experience of existing customers as evidence of a reliable or valuable service.

> \item Many existing subsidy models involve daily token issuance dropping exponentially [ADD REFERENCE], right from launch. However, if the network's fee market does not reach a sufficient stage of maturity in time to make up for this sharp reduction in subsidy, some node operations may be rendered entirely unsustainable. 

Reviewer 2: Don't forget to add your reference re: `[ADD REFERENCE]` here and in other spots.

> \item Many existing subsidy models involve daily token issuance dropping exponentially [ADD REFERENCE], right from launch. However, if the network's fee market does not reach a sufficient stage of maturity in time to make up for this sharp reduction in earnings, some node operations may be rendered entirely unsustainable. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
\item Many existing subsidy models involve daily token issuance dropping exponentially [ADD REFERENCE], right from launch. However, if the network's fee market does not reach a sufficient stage of maturity in time to make up for this sharp reduction in subsidy, some node operations may be rendered entirely unsustainable. 
```

> \item Most importantly, some early adopters will come to NuCypher with a use case that inflexibly requires long-lasting sharing policies. This means that the protocol must motivate the successive re-commitment to long token lock durations (i.e. staking for 12+ months) by a sufficient population of service-providers. A diminished subsidy, in lieu of a mature fee market, may not be enough to incentivize this repeated and essential re-commitment. 

Reviewer 2: "early adopters [may come to NuCypher with] a use case" -> "early adopters may employ a use case"

```suggestion
\item Most importantly, some early adopters may employ a use case that inflexibly requires long-lasting sharing policies. This means that the protocol must motivate the successive re-commitment to long token lock durations (i.e. staking for 12+ months) by a sufficient population of service-providers. A diminished subsidy, in lieu of a mature fee market, may not be enough to incentivize this repeated and essential re-commitment. 
```

Author: ```suggestion
\item Most importantly, there will be some early adopters of NuCypher whose use case inflexibly requires long-lasting sharing policies. This means that the protocol must motivate the successive re-commitment to long token lock durations (i.e. staking for 12+ months) by a sufficient population of service-providers. A diminished subsidy, in lieu of a mature fee market, may not be enough to incentivize this repeated and essential re-commitment. 
```

\end{enumerate}

\\\\

> Hence this model attempts to mitigate the risk of \textbf{fledgling network demand coinciding with a disincentivized, dwindling or transient supply}. Note that these arguments do not involve strong claims about when (or if) network adoption will occur. Instead, it is the acknowledgement of uncertainty with respect to an adoption timeline that forms the core of the problem, and underpins the utility and advantage of a stable issuance phase as part of a two-phase minting schedule. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Hence this model attempts to mitigate the risk of \textbf{fledgling network demand coinciding with a disincentivized, dwindling or transient supply} of service providers. Note that these arguments do not involve strong claims about when (or if) network adoption will occur. Instead, it is the acknowledgement of uncertainty with respect to an adoption timeline that forms the core of the problem, and underpins the utility and advantage of a stable issuance phase as part of a two-phase minting schedule. 
```

Why bold?

\item If subsidies are worth significantly more than the typical sum of transaction fees earned in the same period, then the incentive to earn those fees may be blunted. This is particularly problematic for the protocol if the work required to collect subsidies does not align well with work required to earn fees, and the reliability of the latter impacts overall service quality. 
\item High but decreasing subsidies may compel some service-providers to offer an unsustainably cheap service, with the intention of raising prices later once subsidies dry up. Any developers and their end-users that have become reliant on the service, but are unable to afford the higher price point, may see their application/business thrown into jeopardy. The existence of this risk is a serious friction for would-be network users planning an integration and justifying the associated upfront costs and technical dependency.

> \item In NuCypher's case, existing market prices for comparable services – key/secrets management and dynamic access control – are extremely low on a per-user basis. Profitability is generally achievable through high volume, which is a long-term endeavour. This business reality aggravates all three above issues described in this sub-section.

Reviewer: /s/per-user/per-operation ?

Author: This bullet point needs a reference and a bit of elaboration. Key management services are very cheap on a per-operation basis. On a per-user basis, they tend to also be cheap because developers rent a single master key and use it to generate keys for multiple users. The only exception are CloudHSMs, which are expensive and max out at 3,300 keys (again, this would probably only require you to rent a second HSM if you're using a unique key per user).

\end{equation}

\begin{equation}
    2.885 = I_{max} \cdot (5 + \frac{2}{\ln{2}})
\end{equation}

\begin{equation}
   I_{max} = \frac{2.885}{7.885} = 36.6\%
\end{equation}
\\
We multiply by $S_0$ and convert $I_{max}$ into the absolute number of tokens minted per period.

\begin{equation}
    \label{eq:abs}
   \frac{I_{max} \cdot S_0}{365} = 1,002,509\:\:new \:tokens \:per \:period
\end{equation}

Hence, the two-phase schedule sees a maximum of 1,002,509 tokens minted every period until there are 2,829,579,800 billion tokens in the circulating supply. At this point the protocol will switch to Phase 2, in which a further 1,055,810,282 tokens will be minted until t = $\infty$.

\section{Staking protocol}

\subsection{Subsidy size and commitment time}

\subsubsection{Sub-stakes}

In order to be eligible to answer user requests, earn fees, and receive subsidies, a service-provider must commit to servicing the network for some period of time by locking collateral (staking). Service-providers specify a stake unlocking time in the future $t_1$, where at time $t$ the minimum duration $t_1 - t$ may not be fewer than $D_{\min}$ = 31 periods, but may be any greater number of periods .
\\\\

> The NuCypher protocol allows service-providers to partition their stake into sub-stakes, up to a maximum of 30. A sub-stake has a unique remaining duration $D$ – the number of periods until it unlocks and the tokens become freely withdrawable. The sub-stake size $\theta$ is the number of tokens locked. It is possible to extend (but not reduce) $D$ for a sub-stake, or split a sub-stake by extending $D$ for part of it. It is also possible to acquire more tokens and increase $\theta$ in any sub-stake.

Reviewer 2: To solidify this section, we should indicate the motivation for such a setting i.e. it provides different liquidity needs for different portions of the stake.

Author: ```suggestion
The NuCypher protocol allows service-providers to partition their stake into sub-stakes, up to a maximum of 30. A sub-stake has a unique remaining duration $D$ – the number of periods until it unlocks and the tokens become freely withdrawable. The sub-stake size $\theta$ is the number of tokens locked. It is possible to extend (but not reduce) $D$ for a sub-stake, or split a sub-stake by extending $D$ for part of it. It is also possible to acquire more tokens and increase $\theta$ in any sub-stake. This mechanism enables more granular planning for future liquidity needs. 
```

    dS_p= \sum_i ds_{i,p}
\end{equation}

Sub-stakes locked for a short times earn less than the maximum subsidy, thereby slowing the expansion of the entire circulating supply – tokens are only minted if they are to be distributed to node operators. The implication of any instance of $\kappa$ < 1 is that it will take longer than the provisional 5 years to mint all the tokens reserved for Phase 1. The year in which the protocol switches from the first to second phase ($T_{1\rightarrow2}$) is therefore: 

\begin{equation}
\label{phaseswitch}
    T_{1\rightarrow2}= \frac{S_{Ph1}}{S_0 \cdot \kappa^* \cdot I_{max}}
\end{equation}
\\
Where $\kappa^*$ is the average lock duration of all sub-stakes, weighted by relative size, and $S_{Ph1}$ is the total number of tokens reserved for Phase 1, excluding the genesis supply (roughly 1.83 billion). For example, if $\kappa^*$ were to equal 11 months, $T_{1\rightarrow2}$ would be  5 years and 79 days. The longest Phase 1 can last (i.e. if all sub-stakes unlock in 1 month or less, so $\kappa^* \approx 0.54$), barring changes to the protocol, is 8 years and 209 days.

\begin{figure}[h!]
    \includegraphics[width=\textwidth]{graphs/SubsidyP1.pdf}

>     \caption{Cumulative total subsidies received in \textbf{Phase 1}, for stakes unlocking in 12+ and 1 month, and configured to re-stake or withdraw subsidies. Staking rate \& average lock duration assumed to be 70\% and 0.77 respectively.}

Reviewer: Are these just arbitrary assumptions or are they pulled from somewhere?

Author: They're both sort of arbitrary. Kappa* = 0.77 if there is a perfectly even distribution of lock durations from 1 month to 12 months (`kappa_avg = (1.0 + (0.5+(0.5*(1/12)))) / 2  # uniform distribution of stake lock`). A staking rate of >= 70% seems realistic given what we know about stakers in our network and our distribution mechanism, and is close to Cosmos's target participation rate. Happy to change either

    \label{fig:tp}
\end{figure}

\subsection{Other considerations for service-providers}

\subsubsection{Re-staking}

A service-provider is free to withdraw the subsidies their sub-stakes receive. If they pocket all incoming tokens, then their sub-stakes will remain the same size, but are likely to decrease as a fraction of the total tokens staked ($\Theta$), which means their period-to-period subsidy, and exposure to user requests, will also decrease. 
\\\\
A service-provider may re-stake their subsidies, provided they have the capacity to support the potential increase in workload (user requests). If the sub-stakes in question are set to unlock in 1 year or longer, and the average lock duration is shorter than this, then re-staking all subsidies would see those sub-stakes grow and account for a increasing fraction of the total tokens staked. As a result, the subsidies received would also rise over time. \\\\
The dramatic difference in long-term  cumulative earnings between various staking strategies over both phases is shown in figures 4 and 5. 

\subsubsection{Winding down sub-stakes}

> The default setting for all sub-stakes is for $t_i$, the stake unlock duration, to be automatically prolonged. This keeps the subsidy coefficient ($\kappa$) constant. If a service-provider proactively initiates a wind-down – that is, they specify an unlock date in the future for a sub-stake, then the corresponding subsidy will continually decrease as the time to unlock gets smaller and smaller, until $\kappa$ reaches a minimum of $0.5$.

Reviewer 2: This keeps the subsidy coefficient... -> This keeps the staking duration constant and subsequently the subsidy coefficient...

```suggestion
The default setting for all sub-stakes is for $t_i$, the stake unlock duration, to be automatically prolonged. This keeps the staking duration constant and subsequently the subsidy coefficient ($\kappa$) constant. If a service-provider proactively initiates a wind-down – that is, they specify an unlock date in the future for a sub-stake, then the corresponding subsidy will continually decrease as the time to unlock gets smaller and smaller, until $\kappa$ reaches a minimum of $0.5$.
```

Author: Just realised my mistake – `t_i` is not the duration but the moment in time the sub-stake unlocks. Prolonging applies to a duration not a date, so removing it. 
```suggestion
The default setting for a sub-stake $i$ is for $D_i$, the duration of time until the unlock date, to be automatically prolonged. This holds the subsidy coefficient ($\kappa_i$) constant. If a service-provider proactively initiates a wind-down – that is, they specify an unchanging unlock date in the future, then the corresponding subsidy will continually decrease as the duration to unlock gets smaller and smaller, until $\kappa_i$ reaches a minimum of $0.5$.
```

\subsubsection{Staking rate \& real yield}

> The \textit{staking rate} is the percentage of tokens staked out of the total circulating supply in a given period. Other protocols refer to this variable as the `participation rate' or `total staked'. The \textit{real yield} is used to describe the true subdisy earnings of actively staking service-providers at a given timestamp, accounting for the staking rate and dilution. The real yield is a function of the nominal issuance (or `inflation rate' in other networks). The real yield is usually expressed as a percentage of stake size, and on an annual basis. Other protocols refer to this variable as the `adjusted reward' or simply `yield'. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The \textit{staking rate} is the percentage of tokens staked out of the total circulating supply in a given period. Other protocols refer to this variable as the `participation rate' or `total staked'. The \textit{real yield} is used to describe the true subsidy earnings of actively staking service-providers at a given timestamp, accounting for the staking rate and dilution. The real yield is a function of the nominal issuance (or `inflation rate' in other networks). The real yield is usually expressed as a percentage of stake size, and on an annual basis. Other protocols refer to this variable as the `adjusted reward' or simply `yield'. 
```

\\\\
The NuCypher protocol distributes subsidies such that the real yield $Y_r$ in a given period is inversely proportional to to the staking rate $\lambda$: 

\begin{equation}
    Y_r \:\:\alpha\:\: \frac{I_{max}}{\lambda}
\end{equation}

For example, the calculations for figures 4 and 5 assume a constant staking rate of 70\%.

\section{Empirical analysis of existing networks}

\textit{Full study to be published. This section summarizes analysis thus far and evaluates results with respect to the two-phase model.}

\subsection{Outline}

\subsubsection{Objectives \& Data Characteristics}

> The objective of this analysis is to better understand the relationship, if any, between (1) the variable real value of a subsidy received by service-providers/stakers (the \textit{real yield}), and (2) their subsequent, collective decision to increase, decrease or maintain the size of their stake, expressed as a percentage of the total circulating tokens (the \textit{staking rate}). This pertains directly to the primary objective of the NuCypher staking protocol mentioned in section 1 – to maximise the abundance and reliability of network supply – which is reflected in the health\footnote{`Health' in this context simply means the percentage of tokens staked – for example, a network with only 5\% of tokens staked might be described as unhealthy, because it may be highly centralized and/or not have the capacity to deal with demand} and stability of the staking rate. This study employs data sets from two independent sources, (A) Staking Rewards and (B) Yields:

Reviewer: footnote numbers reset to 1 here in the pdf

Author: Eagle-eyed! I'll fix this

\\\\
(B) Yields provides data on the networks Tezos, Cosmos, and Livepeer. The Yields time series is daily and runs from July 2019 (Tezos \& Cosmos) and September 2019 (Livepeer) until April 2020 (all three networks). Variable (1) is referred to as the \textit{real yield}, and variable (2) as the \textit{staking rate}. 
\\\\
For the networks in both data sets, there are discrepancies between equivalent readings on overlapping days. This may be due to different methods of calculating both variables, but it is beyond the scope of this study to reconcile the data or decide which is superior, and so both sets of results should be interpreted with equal weight, or weighted by sample size. It is worth mentioning that these data entries have been calculated by (A) professional data providers whose products depend on data accuracy, and (B) professional staking operators that currently stake in all the networks in question. Thus both data sets certainly reflect \textbf{an} authentic economic reality, if not \textbf{the} economic reality. 

\subsubsection{Relevant system dynamics}\label{dynamics}

> In all the networks under examination, when the staking rate increases, the real yield decreases \textbf{immediately} by a similar magnitude, and vice versa. This is because the amount of stake eligible for a subsidy increases, but the total subsidy available at that same timestamp doesn't change (or changes a relatively small amount) - this means there are fewer tokens to go around. This is a known, causal relationship, that we expect to witness when the time lag between the variables is zero. 

Reviewer 2: Instead of "fewer tokens to go around" -> "more stakers to split the same total subsidy"

Saying subsidy remains the same, but then stating fewer tokens to go around seems odd - I know what you meant though.

```suggestion
In all the networks under examination, when the staking rate increases, the real yield decreases \textbf{immediately} by a similar magnitude, and vice versa. This is because the amount of stake eligible for a subsidy increases, but the total subsidy available at that same timestamp doesn't change (or changes a relatively small amount) - this means there are more stakers to split the same total subsidy. This is a known, causal relationship, that we expect to witness when the time lag between the variables is zero. 
```

\\\\

> The networks under examination have different rules for increasing and reducing the size of a stake (often referred to as `unbonding'), but typically it is asymmetric – a staker may deposit tokens more rapidly than withdraw. Livepeer stakers must trigger a withdrawal and wait about 7 days, Tezos requires a 1-2 day wait, and Cosmos \& Irisnet require 21 days. A rigorous evaluation of the impact of this asymmetry on the results is left for future work. In all the networks, a significant proportion of tokens are delegated to professional stakers. This affects the nature of staker `behavior', in particular the timing of their actions – since there may be a delay of unclear length between a delegator `undelegating' and this change being reflected in the overall staking rate. In general, we assume that changes in the real yield are experienced by delegators, and they react accordingly, if not in a precisely the same manner as stakers.

Reviewer 2: in [a precisely] same manner... -> in the same manner...

Extra `a` and "precisely the same" is a bit redundant.

```suggestion
The networks under examination have different rules for increasing and reducing the size of a stake (often referred to as `unbonding'), but typically it is asymmetric – a staker may deposit tokens more rapidly than withdraw. Livepeer stakers must trigger a withdrawal and wait about 7 days, Tezos requires a 1-2 day wait, and Cosmos \& Irisnet require 21 days. A rigorous evaluation of the impact of this asymmetry on the results is left for future work. In all the networks, a significant proportion of tokens are delegated to professional stakers. This affects the nature of staker `behavior', in particular the timing of their actions – since there may be a delay of unclear length between a delegator `undelegating' and this change being reflected in the overall staking rate. In general, we assume that changes in the real yield are experienced by delegators, and they react accordingly, if not in the same manner as stakers.
```

    \end{minipage}\hfill
    \begin{minipage}{0.5\textwidth}
        \centering
        \includegraphics[width=1\textwidth]{graphs/CrossCorr_Yields_DIF_28.pdf}
        \caption{28 day lump}
    \end{minipage}
    \caption{Cross-correlation of Real Yield and Staking rate, with a lag of $\pm50$ days instituted between the time series. Each graph shows a different lump size. Data from Yields.}
\end{figure}

\subsubsection{Methodology}

The graphs in this section show the cross-correlation (Pearson) between the historical time series of the real yield and the staking rate, across a range of time-lags. All time series have been \textit{detrended} by training a linear regression model on the data, then subtracting the resulting trend from the data. All time series have also been \textit{differenced}. These two steps significantly reduce the autocorrelation and time-dependent structure of the data, granting the cross-correlations greater validity. Before the lagged cross-correlation was computed, each time series was `lumped' – using the 7, 14, 21 and 28 day mean to group the data. Each of these lump sizes are displayed and discussed individually.

\subsubsection{Analysis}

> As expected, the cross-correlation is -1 when the lag is zero. This is the manifestation of the known dynamic mentioned in the previous section, where changes in the staking rate immediately impacts the real yield. We are interested in the reverse relationship – answering the question, `Does a preceding change in the real yield predict a change in the staking rate?'. This depends on human decision-making and behavior, and occurs over an unknown time lag, if at all. The right hand side of each graph (where the x-axis is positive) shows the results when the real yield data have been shifted, and so real yield readings are occurring `before' staking rate readings. This is where to look for evidence that the real yield might predict or cause the staking rate.

Reviewer 2: are occurring - occur

```suggestion
As expected, the cross-correlation is -1 when the lag is zero. This is the manifestation of the known dynamic mentioned in the previous section, where changes in the staking rate immediately impacts the real yield. We are interested in the reverse relationship – answering the question, `Does a preceding change in the real yield predict a change in the staking rate?'. This depends on human decision-making and behavior, and occurs over an unknown time lag, if at all. The right hand side of each graph (where the x-axis is positive) shows the results when the real yield data have been shifted, and so real yield readings occur `before' staking rate readings. This is where to look for evidence that the real yield might predict or cause the staking rate.
```

\\\\
These results challenge established ideas about staker behavior – a widely-held assumption in staking protocol design is that lower earnings prompt stakers to reduce their stake size, which eventually increases average earnings for the remaining stakers in the next few subsidy rounds, thereby rebalancing the subsidy mechanism. In other words, protocol designers expect a causal relationship that mirrors the known, immediate dynamic (staking rate changing real yield), but perhaps more slowly. For this to be possible, we would at the very least need to see strong positive correlations between the real yield and staking rate once a lag is instituted. We can be agnostic about the magnitude of the lag, but even after 50 days, there is scant evidence that this rebalancing effect is happening in practice.
\\\\
The second implication of these results is that, in some cases, changes in the real yield is having the opposite effect as would be expected. The Staking Rewards data suggests that the collective staker reaction to lower real yields may be to increase their stake, and vice versa. This has 
\\\\

> It's worth mentioning that the negative cross-correlations on display theoretically contain both the reaction of staking more in response to a lower real yield, and staking less in response to a higher real yield – but crucially, the latter necessarily occurs over with a time delay. It is not easy to disentangle these two dynamics within the results data. Nevertheless, we can make claims about specific data points – for example, let's look at the negative cross-correlation of -0.965 calculated for Cosmos, at a lag of 14 days (56 x 6 hour periods), in the 14 day lump, with Staking Rewards data. Given that Cosmos's unbonding delay is 21 days, this result is almost entirely explained by stakers depositing tokens, as opposed to withdrawing them. 

Reviewer 2: [over] with a time delay -> with a time delay

```suggestion
It's worth mentioning that the negative cross-correlations on display theoretically contain both the reaction of staking more in response to a lower real yield, and staking less in response to a higher real yield – but crucially, the latter necessarily occurs with a time delay. It is not easy to disentangle these two dynamics within the results data. Nevertheless, we can make claims about specific data points – for example, let's look at the negative cross-correlation of -0.965 calculated for Cosmos, at a lag of 14 days (56 x 6 hour periods), in the 14 day lump, with Staking Rewards data. Given that Cosmos's unbonding delay is 21 days, this result is almost entirely explained by stakers depositing tokens, as opposed to withdrawing them. 
```

\\\\
More generally, a major unknown in these systems is the staker `reaction time'. Theoretically, a staker could respond to a changing real yield immediately, while another waits weeks for this change to evolve into a trend. Selecting a single lump size would introduce unacceptable experimenter bias into the results. Of course, 7, 14, 21, and 28 day lumps are not the full story, but they are a decent starting point. Lumps lower than 7 days seem unrealistic, since anecdotally, stakers are not known to change their stake size in response to hourly or daily changes to subsidies. The very weak correlations at the 7 day lump size demonstrate this. Lumps greater than 28 days run into sample size issues, where the total number of data points to run a Pearson correlation over drops to single digits.

\subsubsection{Interpretation with respect to two-phase model}

> The notion that \textit{node operators can only be counted on for a reliable service if they are well compensated, or will quickly abandon the network} appears, so far, to be empirically unsubstantiated. None of the networks under examination, based on data from two independent sources, have experienced a shortfall of operators, nor are there any observable trends that correlate decreasing earnings with an increasing paucity of supply. The observable abundance of supply and lack of staker sensitivity to decreasing rewards appears to \textbf{derisk the two-phase model}, by undermining a possible objection – that relatively lower issuance in the early days of the network (see figure 1), will fail to attract or sustain a sufficient number of node operators. Remember that all the data in this study pertains to the very early months of each network's existence, so it is a reasonable model for the first few years of the NuCypher network.

Reviewer 2: figure 1 -> FIG. (1)
```suggestion
The notion that \textit{node operators can only be counted on for a reliable service if they are well compensated, or will quickly abandon the network} appears, so far, to be empirically unsubstantiated. None of the networks under examination, based on data from two independent sources, have experienced a shortfall of operators, nor are there any observable trends that correlate decreasing earnings with an increasing paucity of supply. The observable abundance of supply and lack of staker sensitivity to decreasing rewards appears to \textbf{derisk the two-phase model}, by undermining a possible objection – that relatively lower issuance in the early days of the network (see FIG. (1)), will fail to attract or sustain a sufficient number of node operators. Remember that all the data in this study pertains to the very early months of each network's existence, so it is a reasonable model for the first few years of the NuCypher network.
```

> The notion that \textit{node operators can only be counted on for a reliable service if they are well compensated, or will quickly abandon the network} appears, so far, to be empirically unsubstantiated. None of the networks under examination, based on data from two independent sources, have experienced a shortfall of operators, nor are there any observable trends that correlate decreasing earnings with an increasing paucity of supply. The observable abundance of supply and lack of staker sensitivity to decreasing rewards appears to \textbf{derisk the two-phase model}, by undermining a possible objection – that relatively lower issuance in the early days of the network (see figure 1), will fail to attract or sustain a sufficient number of node operators. Remember that all the data in this study pertains to the very early months of each network's existence, so it is a reasonable model for the first few years of the NuCypher network.

Reviewer: still... the emission is still among the highest among staking projects even with the two-phase model so it feels a bit awkward to answer a "low inflation" objection

Author: This is a really good point. I've rewritten the interpretation: 

Regardless of which of these underlying explanations one favours, it is reasonable to conclude that reserving the highest subsidies for the early years of the network is wholly unnecessary. The essence of the two-phase model is maintaining the sum of tokens to be minted over the network's lifetime, but flattening the minting schedule. Therefore the riskiest epoch of the two-phase model, relative to a generic model (i.e. where the issuance falls continuously), is the first few years – where all things equal, the issuance is lower than it would have been. The results demonstrate that, whether due to enthusiasm or deep pockets, service-providers are very unlikely to abandon the network early on. Given the over-arching objective of abundant and reliable service provision, this conclusion derisks the two-phase model.

    \begin{minipage}{0.48\textwidth}
        \centering
        \includegraphics[width=0.99\textwidth]{graphs/two-steps.png}

>         \caption{The stake in FIG. (3) has been split into two sub-stakes. This was achieved by extending the duration to unlock ($D_2 = t_2 - t$) for a portion (of size $\theta_2$) of the total tokens in the original stake. The two sub-stakes will receive differently sized subsidies.}

Reviewer: Isn't there some latex syntax for Figures? So if we change the order or insert a new one, we don't need to manually update everything

Author: There definitely is, I was spending too much time faffing with latex and wanted to just push the doc. I will fix this in the next update!
